HTCOBOL

NAME
htcobol - COBOL compiler.

SYNOPSIS
htcobol [ options ] input-file-name

DESCRIPTION
A compiler for the COmmon Business Oriented Language, COBOL.  

The COBOL compiler 'htcobol' reads from a COBOL source file, 
and depending on the option, will pre-process, compile, assemble and link 
to generate an executable, object, or shared (DLL) library.

The compiler generates 32-bit GNU assembler for the x86 (i386) platforms.   
With the aid of the GCC tool set, this intermediate code can then be 
used to create binary objects.

Binary objects can be created either directly by the compiler (htcobol), 
or by using the GNU assembler code as input to the GCC tool chain.

The compiler conforms to a substantial portion of the COBOL-85 standards, 
and some of the COBOL-2002 standard.

The compiler recognizes several command line options as described below.

You can get a help message by invoking htcobol with the '-h' option.


INITIALIZATION FILES
Many compiler options can be set using the resource file
or command line options.

The precedence of any compiler option is as follows:
1. Command line options, if available.
2. Environment variables, if available.
3. The compile options file (htcobolrc), if available.
4. Compiler default options.


OPTIONS
Compiler specific options:

-h, --help     
       Display help.

-B <mode>    
       Specify binding mode (static or dynamic).

-c     Preprocess, compile and assemble, but do not link.

-E     Preprocessor only; do not compile, assemble or link.

-g     Generate compiler debugging output.

-l <name>     
       Add library name to link step.

-L <path>
       Add directory to library search path.

-m     Build a shared library (DLL) or module.

-n     Don't actually run any commands; just print them.

-o <file>
       Specify output file name.

-S     Preprocess, compile (generate assembler code) only;
       Do not assemble or link.

-t     Don't remove intermediate files (pre-processed COBOL file, assembly file, etc.).

-v     Generate verbose compiler output.

-V, --version     
       Display compiler version information and exit.

-Wl,<options>
       Pass comma-separated options on to the linker.

-x     Build an executable program (Default).

-z     Generate very verbose compiler output.

COBOL specific options:

-C     Make all COBOL calls dynamic.

-d     Generate display SECTION/PARAGRAPH trace code.

-D     Include source debugging lines.

-e <name>     
       Specify entry point name (first program to execute)

-F, --fixed     
       Input source is in standard fixed column format.

-I <path>
       Add path to the include (copybooks) search paths
       The path may be either a single directory, or a list of 
       directories separated by a ':' (';' on the Win32 platform).
       The default search path is current working directory (-I.).

-M     Generate entry point 'main' and use PROGRAM-ID of 
       first program with STOP RUN (Default: first PROGRAM-ID).

-P     Generate output listing file.

-T <num>
       Expand tabs to number of space(s) (default T=8).

-X, --free     
       Input source is in free format (default format).


FILES
htcobolrc - Compile options file.
htrtconf  - Run-time options file.

ENVIRONMENT

TCOB_OPTIONS_PATH 
Compile-time options file directory path.

TCOB_RTCONFIG_PATH
Run-time options file directory path.

TCOB_LD_LIBRARY_PATH and LD_LIBRARY_PATH
Define the shared libraries (DLLs) search paths.

PATH
Win32 (MinGW) dynamically loaded DLL search path.


SEE ALSO
htcobrun(1), GCC(1), as(1), ld(1), make(1)

LAST MODIFIED
August 22, 2010

TinyCOBOL : http://tiny-cobol.sf.net
